Things to do in Bagan
-----------------------------
1. Take a hot air balloon ride
If you want to see Bagan in all its glory then you really need to take to the air.

With that in mind, consider signing up for an elegant balloon ride where you will soar into the sky and glide gracefully over the complex which offers you a completely different vantage point where you can look down on the glorious temples here.

If you don’t have a head for heights, then you may still want to watch the colorful balloons taking off and floating over Bagan as this is a sight in itself and makes a great photo opportunity.
-----------------------
2. Buy some local artworks
Bagan is known for its art work and its local handicrafts so it makes a great place if you want to stock up on local souvenirs.

Bagan is primarily famous for its ornate lacquer ware but you will also find local textiles as well as other pieces like traditional jewelry.

Some of the quirkier finds here also include sand paintings which can be quite intricate and are a nice nod to the dusty plains on which Bagan sits.
---------------------
3. Take a boat trip
If you want to watch the sunset in style in Bagan then consider renting your own private boat and floating down the river.

You can easily charter a small local boat which will seat around four people and then go for a cruise that takes between one and two hours.

Just head down to the central jetty in Bagan where you will find a number of vendors who will take you upriver.
--------------------
4. Check out Shwesandaw Paya
If you want to catch the best sunsets in Bagan then you need to head to Shwesandaw Paya which features a gorgeous pagoda built in the pyramid style out of white stone.

There are steps cut into the temple which then lead up to five terraces which end at the top of a large stupa and from here you can experience panoramic views all over Bagan.

Bear in mind that it gets crowded at sunset as it is known for its vistas, although the upper tier is quite spacious.

If you want to check it out without the crowds however then just visit in the daytime when it experiences much less foot traffic.
------------------
5. Tour the Archaeological Museum
The Archaeological Museum is part of a large complex and is the best museum to visit in Bagan if you want to get a quick look at some of the background of this amazing sight in one go.

You will also find a huge number of pieces taken from around Bagan such as Buddha images and stone with ornate inscriptions and you will also even find some modern paintings of the various temples.

As well as antiques and art work, you will also be able to check out a range of textiles and even a gallery that features different ancient hair styles.
----------------
6. Temporary Tattoo Painting
Temporary tattoo shops near famous pagodas in the Bagan-NyaungU region have reported good earning during the holiday and pilgrimage seasons. Temporary tattoo artists said they have earned around K100,000 per day in season.
Local pilgrims and tourists are interested in temporary tattoos which they find quite attractive, said tattoo artists. The artists said they are inking floral motifs from the Bagan period, depicted on the walls of pagodas, on people’s arms, palms, fingers, and necks, and earning a good income. Skin tattoos last at least two to four days unless washed, according to local artists.